 Relative Notes: [[AI Development]] [[Software Development]] 
 By Brayden Cotterman
##                                   ***A.I. Art: An Optimistic Perspective***
If you have been on the internet for the last few years, you will know about the phenomenon of A.I. "art" with popular generators like DALL-E, Stable Diffusion and MidJourney. Currently, A.I. "art" is a particularly loaded topic with reactions ranging from avarice-filled grins from the elite, fiery rage and despair from artists and indifference and slight novelty from most. All reactions that make sense given the situation however, I believe, in regards to artists, that their fears and sadness are a bit misguided. To preface, I do not support A.I. "art" nor am I happy with its implementation.  The datasets that trained these image generators were made with art stolen from billions of artists who never received the credit (and cash) that they deserved. Not only that, but A.I. "art" isn't really art because of how the system works. A.I. "art" generators function by taking in billions of images and Frankensteining them together to get a result. To clarify, the A.I. isn't creating anything, rather, it is using images (stolen from others) and slapping them together until it looks somewhat presentable. To get to the point of this essay, I wish to point out the 3 misconceptions that I notice regarding A.I. "art". These myths include: the belief that no one will make art anymore because A.I. can just make it, that companies will never hire/commission artists anymore, and that companies not hiring/commissioning artists anymore is a completely bad thing. 

Firstly, A.I. "art" will not cause mankind to lose all interest in art because art is an experience not a product. Art is not simply something to look at, listen to or feel, art is an experience. This experience is the loving strokes of paint, the harsh bangs of drums and the masterful manipulation of clay. A.I. "art" gives us the end result but, of course, fails to give us the joys of creating art. Meaning, people will continue to make art simply because they like doing it. A good example of this is people who create art for free on spaces like DeviantArt, Art Fight, and Neocities of course! I can testify with a personal experience of my own with creating art. Recently, I have become enraptured with making pixel art. This fascination not coming from the end result but from the wonderfully stimulating and soothing activity of bringing my ideas and characters to life with simple squares. In the event that I could just generate my art and it be exactly what I'm looking for (which is very very VERY unlikely with current A.I.s ) it wouldn't be nearly as enjoyable because I wouldn't be able to enjoy the process. 

Next, A.I. "art" will not replace **all** artists in the workplace because of the limitations and costs of the A.I. As I stated earlier, A.I. "art" does not have the ability to create anything unique or new. As a result of this limitation, A.I. art can't be used for companies that want to stand out against their competitors or make a statement. This fact incredibly incentives companies to just commission an artist to create the logo, advertisement, etc. Creativity and uniqueness is incredibly important for getting consumers. This is can be seen in stuff like advertisements, particularly in  T.V. commercials which are known to be wacky and strange. An example of this wacky design working flawlessly being, the "puppy monkey baby" MTN Dew commercials. (y'all remember those?) Wacky and strange design increases viewer retention and causes people to remember the products more.  So no, artists are not in fact at risk at of becoming completely replaced by A.I. "art" in the workplace.

Lastly, even if A.I. "art" replaced all artists in the workplace, this wouldn't be a strictly bad thing to happen because it would completely disconnect art from money. Art for years has been on a downfall in a lot of spaces because it has to yield to the market. This causes ideas to never come to fruition because it didn't please investors, for I.Ps to be milked for everything they got until it stops making money and is disposed of and art made purely to appeal to as many people as possible and to say ultimately, nothing. In the event A.I. replaced all artists in the corporate world, art would increase in quality and would be made with passion and love rather than greed and avarice. An example of this would be, Harry Styles and his song, "music for a sushi restaurant" which is not only painfully boring but also devoid of any risk-taking because, of course, then his record label could lose money. 

In conclusion, A.I. is not the "end of art" that people think it is and is rather a stepping stone for humanity. A.I. "art" will be a catalyst for a new era of art, for better or for worse. Thank you for listening to me blabber on... See Ya!
